.TH scantool 8 "10.02.2002"
.IX scantool
.SH NAME
scantool - standalone SM3600 scan program and testbed
.SH SYNOPSIS
scantool [ \fB\-v\fR ] [ \fB\-b\fR \fIbrightness\fR ] [ \fB\-c\fR
\fIcontrast\fR ] [ \fB\-p\fR \fIpreset\fR ] [ \fB\-q\fR \fIquality\fR
] [ \fB\-m\fR \fIscanmode\fR ] [ \fB\-o\fR \fIencoder\fR ] [ \fB\-d\fR
\fIdebugmask\fR ] outputfile [ \fIresolution\fR [ \fIleft\fR [
\fItop\fR [ \fIwidth\fR [ \fIheight\fR ] ] ] ] ]
.nf

scantool [ \fB\-i\fR ] [ \fB\-d\fR \fIdebugmask\fR ]

scantool [ \fB\-h\fR ]

scantool [ \fB\-V\fR ] 

scantool -O -m gray innerbed.pgm 0 0 9000 3000

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B scantool
\fBscantool\fR has two functions. Is is a special optimised scanning
tool for standardised problems like A4 printing copy scanning, and it
is a debugging testbed for the sm3600 SANE functions.
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP \fB\-b\fR \fIbrightness\fR
Set the Brightness to \fIbrightness\fR. Values are from -255 to
255. Just experiment with the values. The brightness sets also the
threshold for line mode.

.IP \fB\-c\fR \fIcontrast\fR
Set the contrast to \fIcontrast\fR. Values are from -255 to
255. Just experiment with the values.

.IP \fB\-d\fR \fIflags\fR
Set debug Flags to \fIflags\fR. \fIflags\fR is a number representing a
bitvector.

.IP \fB\-h\fR
Get a rough option overview.

.IP \fB\-m\fR \fImode\fR
Select scan \fImode\fR. Modes are \fBcolor\fR, \fBgray\fR, \fBline\fR or
\fBhalftone\fR.

.IP \fB\-O\fR
Skip initial slider returning and calibration.

.IP \fB\-o\fR \fIencoding\fR
Select optional encoder as \fIencoding\fR. Encoders are \fBg4tiff\fR,
\fBpcl\fR, \fBbitmap\fR, \fBnoenc\fR. Default is \fBnoenc\fR.

.IP \fB\-p\fR \fIpreset\fR
Set preset values for dimensions, resolutions, exposure and mode. For
now it is hard coded. Presets are \fBcopy\fR, \fBfax\fR.

.IP \fB\-q\fR \fIquality\fR
Set overall \fIquality\fR. Scan qualities are (not implemented yet)
\fBfast\fR, \fBhigh\fR or \fBbest\fR.

.IP \fB\-v\fR
Verbose output.

.IP \fB\-V\fR
Tell version.


.SH "MODES"
\fBscantool\fR runs in some \fImajor modes\fR. They are an
\fIinteractive\fR commandline (\fB-i\fR) and a default scan-and-output
mode. With the interactive mode some internal commands can be
triggered and parametrised without need for compilation of test
scenarios.

The program is especially useful when You want to get an insight
picture of the housing of the scanner with the famous "home position
spots". Option \fB-O\fR is Your friend.

.SH "UNITS"
All geometrical units are in 1200 dots per inch. It is a common unit
for scan tools.

.SH "ENCODERS"

Output is PNM by default. When You build scantool with \fBg4tool\fR
support, You can also have a compressed output in PCL or ITU-G4, which
is suitable for facsimile storage.

Note, that grayscale and color scan cannot be processed with these
encoders. They are designed for 1 bit sources. Really suitable is the
PCL encoder.

.SH "INTERACTIVE MODE"

You can get a simple keystroke-action-menu with option \fB\-i\fR. With
this menu You can job the slider around, test the home run function
and other special stuf. This menu can help You to adapt the code to
new models of the scanner hardware.

.SH AUTHOR
.br
Marian Eichholz (eichholz@computer.org)
.br

